Adds Cluster Toolkit Dockerfile for backend integration with XPK (#3237)
GoogleCloudPlatform/cluster-toolkit: tools/cloud-build/images/cluster-toolkit-dockerfile/README.md

# Cluster Toolkit Dockerfile

This repository contains a Dockerfile for building a Docker image with Cluster Toolkit and its dependencies installed and the `gcluster` binary readily available for use.

## System Requirements

* [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) needs to be installed to build a Docker image from this Dockerfile.

## Build Arguments
The following build arguments can be used to customize the build process:
* **`BASE_IMAGE`**: The base image to use for the build. Defaults to `gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/google-cloud-cli:stable`.
* **`TERRAFORM_VERSION`**: The version of Terraform to install. Defaults to `1.5.2`.
* **`PACKER_VERSION`**: The version of Packer to install. Defaults to `1.8.6`.
* **`GO_VERSION`**: The version of Go to install. Defaults to `1.21.0`.

> * **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF`**: The [Cluster Toolkit repository's](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cluster-toolkit/releases) branch or tag from which to build Cluster Toolkit.  Defaults to the `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF`**: The [Cluster Toolkit repository's](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cluster-toolkit/releases) branch or tag from which to build Cluster Toolkit.  Defaults to the `main` branch, which is the latest official release.
```

## Build the Cluster Toolkit Docker Image
To build the Cluster Toolkit Docker image, navigate to the directory the Dockerfile is present in and run the following command:

```bash
docker build --build-arg BASE_IMAGE=<base_image> \
             --build-arg TERRAFORM_VERSION=<terraform_version> \
             --build-arg PACKER_VERSION=<packer_version> \
             --build-arg GO_VERSION=<go_version> \
             --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF=<cluster_toolkit_ref> \
             -t <image_name> .
```

Example:

```bash

> docker build --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF=v1.40.0 -t my-cluster-toolkit-image .

Reviewer: I this we should make the example show the tag name(s) we'd recommend, i.e. `gcluster` and `ghpc` (instead of `my-cluster-toolkit-image`).

```suggestion
docker build --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF=v1.40.0 -t gcluster -t ghpc .
```

```

> The above example builds an image tagged `my-cluster-toolkit-image` and sets the CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF to v1.40.0 while using the default values for other arguments.

Reviewer: Update tag name after making the change on line 32.

```suggestion
The above example builds an image tagged `my-cluster-toolkit-image` and sets the `CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF` to the Git tag `v1.40.0` while using the default values for other arguments.
```

## Run the Cluster Toolkit Docker Image
To run the Cluster Toolkit Docker image, use the following command:

```bash
docker run -v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud -v $(pwd):/out <image_name> <gcluster_command>
```

This command runs the Cluster Toolkit Docker image and allows the `gcluster` binary to access your Google Cloud credentials and local files. Here's a breakdown:

* `-v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud`: This argument mounts your local Google Cloud configuration directory `(~/.config/gcloud)` to the `/root/.config/gcloud` directory inside the container. This allows the `gcluster` binary to access your credentials and interact with Google Cloud resources when needed.

> * `-v $(pwd):/out`: This argument mounts your current working directory `($(pwd))` to the `/out` directory inside the container. This is important because the Cluster Toolkit Dockerfile is designed to automatically output deployment folders to the `/out` directory. Due to this automatic output behavior, you should not provide the `--out` argument to the `create` and `deploy` gcluster subcommands when using this Dockerfile. Instead, mount a local directory (as shown in the example above with $(pwd)) to the   `/out` directory within the container. This ensures that the deployment folder persists even after the container exits, allowing you to access and manage the deployment artifacts even after the container is removed. Additionally, this allows the container to access any files in your current directory (like blueprint files) from within the container. You can then reference these files in your `<gcluster_command>` using the `/out` path.

Reviewer: Looks like there's an extra pair of parentheses around `$(pwd)`?

* `<image_name>`: Replace this with the name of your Docker image.
* `<gcluster_command>`: Replace this with the `gcluster` command you want to execute. The Cluster Toolkit Docker image has `ENTRYPOINT ["gcluster"]` in its Dockerfile. This means that the `gcluster` command is automatically executed when the container starts, and any arguments provided after `<image_name>` in the `docker run` command are passed as arguments to `gcluster`.

Example:

```bash

> docker run -v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud -v $(pwd):/out my-cluster-toolkit-image deploy /out/my-blueprint.yaml --auto-approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run -v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud -v $(pwd):/out gcluster deploy /out/my-blueprint.yaml --auto-approve
```

# Cluster Toolkit Dockerfile

This repository contains a Dockerfile for building a Docker image with Cluster Toolkit and its dependencies installed and the `gcluster` binary readily available for use.

## System Requirements

* [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) needs to be installed to build a Docker image from this Dockerfile.

## Build Arguments
The following build arguments can be used to customize the build process:
* **`BASE_IMAGE`**: The base image to use for the build. Defaults to `gcr.io/google.com/cloudsdktool/google-cloud-cli:stable`.
* **`TERRAFORM_VERSION`**: The version of Terraform to install. Defaults to `1.5.2`.
* **`PACKER_VERSION`**: The version of Packer to install. Defaults to `1.8.6`.
* **`GO_VERSION`**: The version of Go to install. Defaults to `1.21.0`.

> * **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION`**: The version (tag) of the Cluster Toolkit to install. Defaults to the current version associated with the `main` branch of the cluster toolkit repository.

Reviewer: I'm sorry I didn't catch this the first time around.  It might be better to call this `CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF` to match the naming convention in the rest of Toolkit (using "ref").  Reminder: update all occurences of this string in the Dockerfile and README.md.

> * **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION`**: The version (tag) of the Cluster Toolkit to install. Defaults to the current version associated with the `main` branch of the cluster toolkit repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_REF`**: The [Cluster Toolkit repository's](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cluster-toolkit/releases) branch or tag from which to build Cluster Toolkit.  Defaults to the `main` branch.
```

## Build the Cluster Toolkit Docker Image
To build the Cluster Toolkit Docker image, navigate to the directory the Dockerfile is present in and run the following command:

```bash
docker build --build-arg BASE_IMAGE=<base_image> \
             --build-arg TERRAFORM_VERSION=<terraform_version> \
             --build-arg PACKER_VERSION=<packer_version> \
             --build-arg GO_VERSION=<go_version> \
             --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION=<cluster_toolkit_version> \
             -t <image_name> .
```

Example:

```bash
docker build --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION=v1.40.0 -t my-cluster-toolkit-image .
```

The above example builds an image tagged `my-cluster-toolkit-image` and sets the CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION to v1.40.0 while using the default values for other arguments.

## Run the Cluster Toolkit Docker Image
To run the Cluster Toolkit Docker image, use the following command:

```bash
docker run -v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud -v $(pwd):/data <image_name> <gcluster_command>
```

This command runs the Cluster Toolkit Docker image and allows the `gcluster` binary to access your Google Cloud credentials and local files. Here's a breakdown:

> * `-v ~/.config/gcloud/:/root/.config/gcloud`: This part mounts your local Google Cloud configuration directory `(~/.config/gcloud)` to the `/root/.config/gcloud` directory inside the container. This allows the `gcluster` binary to access your credentials and interact with Google Cloud resources.

Reviewer: Replace `This part` with `This argument` for all occurences.

* `-v $(pwd):/data`: This part mounts your current working directory `($(pwd))` to the `/data` directory inside the container. This allows you to access any files in your current directory (like blueprint files) from within the container. You can then reference these files in your `<gcluster_command>` using the `/data` path.
* `<image_name>`: Replace this with the name of your Docker image.
* `<gcluster_command>`: Replace this with the `gcluster` command you want to execute. The Cluster Toolkit Docker image has `ENTRYPOINT ["gcluster"]` in its Dockerfile. This means that the `gcluster` command is automatically executed when the container starts, and any arguments provided after `<image_name>` in the docker run command are passed as arguments to `gcluster`.

> When using the docker container to run `gcluster` commands that either deploy or modify cloud resources, it's strongly recommended to save a local copy of the deployment folder that's generated inside of the docker container. This can be done by using the `--out` flag in combination with some `gcluster` commands to set the output directory where the `gcluster` deployment directory will be created. Ideally, the output directory should be a directory mounted from your local machine to the docker container. This ensures that the deployment folder persists even after the container exits, allowing you to access and manage the deployment artifacts even after the container is removed.

Reviewer: I think asking users to set `--out` to a directory *inside* the container would make it confusing.

Can you see if there's a way to automatically set the output directory (i.e. `--out`) for relevant commands?

Maybe an easier alternative is to copy the `gcluster` binary into `/data` and not provide any `--out` argument at all.  If we do this though, be sure to document that the `--out` variable is not supported when using this Docker image.

> When using the docker container to run `gcluster` commands that either deploy or modify cloud resources, it's strongly recommended to save a local copy of the deployment folder that's generated inside of the docker container. This can be done by using the `--out` flag in combination with some `gcluster` commands to set the output directory where the `gcluster` deployment directory will be created. Ideally, the output directory should be a directory mounted from your local machine to the docker container. This ensures that the deployment folder persists even after the container exits, allowing you to access and manage the deployment artifacts even after the container is removed.

Reviewer: Make sure to capitalize the "D" in "Docker".

# Cluster Toolkit Dockerfile

This repository contains a Dockerfile for building a Docker image with Cluster Toolkit and its dependencies installed and the `gcluster` binary readily available for use.

## System Requirements

> * [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) needs to be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) needs to be installed to build a Docker image from this Dockerfile.
```

## Environment Variables

> The following environment variables can be used to customize the build process:

Reviewer: I see that the `docker build` command below sets these using `--build-arg` flags, so just want to confirm: if the user's machine has the environment variable `GO_VERSION=1.2.3` set, and they do not provide the `--build-arg GO_VERSION=???` flag, will the `GO_VERSION` value be set during the build to `1.2.3`?

If not, it'll probably be better to call these "build arguments" rather than "environment variables".

Author: If a user has GO_VERSION=1.2.3 set on their host machine and runs docker build without --build-arg GO_VERSION=..., the Dockerfile will use the default value for GO_VERSION. The host's GO_VERSION will not be used. To use the host's GO_VERSION, the user would need to explicitly pass it in using --build-arg GO_VERSION=$GO_VERSION. I'll update my wording to use "build arguments" so that it's more clear.

* **`TERRAFORM_VERSION`**: The version of Terraform to install. Defaults to `1.5.2`.
* **`PACKER_VERSION`**: The version of Packer to install. Defaults to `1.8.6`.
* **`GO_VERSION`**: The version of Go to install. Defaults to `1.21.0`.
* **`CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION`**: The version (tag) of the Cluster Toolkit to install. Defaults to the current version associated with the `main` branch of the cluster toolkit repository.

## Build the Docker Image
To build the Docker image, navigate to the directory the Dockerfile is present in and run the following command:

```bash
docker build --build-arg BASE_IMAGE=<base_image> \
             --build-arg TERRAFORM_VERSION=<terraform_version> \
             --build-arg PACKER_VERSION=<packer_version> \
             --build-arg GO_VERSION=<go_version> \
             --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION=<cluster_toolkit_version> \
             -t <image_name> .
```

Example:

```bash
docker build --build-arg CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION=v1.40.0 -t my-cluster-toolkit-image .
```

The above example builds an image tagged `my-cluster-toolkit-image` and sets the CLUSTER_TOOLKIT_VERSION to v1.40.0 while using the default values for other arguments.

> ## Run the Docker Image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run the Cluster Toolkit Docker Image
```

To run the Docker image, use the following command:

```bash

> docker run <image_name> <gcluster_command>

Reviewer: Let's describe the basic usage in a top-down way instead of bottom-up.  By this, I mean:
1. Show the `docker run` command which mounts both the gcloud directory and the user's current directory (as a data directory).
2. Break down each part of the command to explain why it's important.

I think this approach would be better because both mounts are pretty important for even basic usage.
